---
id: about-api-docs
title: About API docs
sidebar_label: About these docs
---

These docs are auto-generated by [`generate-api-docs.js`](../TODO.md) which generates the docs based on the ambient typings files within the repository (the `*.d.ts` files). [See below for more info.](#how-these-docs-work)

If you are using an editor that uses the typescript language service (e.g. vs-code, visual studio, webstorm/intelliJ), then you should be able to hover over the definitions within your editor to get the same documentation.

TODO: add screenshot of typings in editors

Please open any issues if you find any within these docs. Open pull requests modifying the `*.d.ts` files.

## How these docs work

These docs work by parsing the ambient typings files (`*.d.ts`) files in `/src` and turning them into markdown files (`*.md`).

This works by using the typescript API (i.e. `const ts = require('typescript');`) to parse the ambient typings for JS doc comments, interfaces, and other code.

The generator will only pick up code that is commented with a JSDoc comment that contains the `@docs` directive.

```ts
//    this comment must be a JSDoc comment
// 👇 (which is more than a multi-line comment)
/**
 * @docs Title of `module`
 *
 * Description of module. You can also put _markdown_ in **here**
 */
function myModule(x: number): string;
```

This will generate the following document:

---

#### Title of `module`

Description of module. You can also put _markdown_ in **here**

```ts
function module(x: number): string;
```

---

## Generating tables for `interface`s

When you put the `@docs` directive above an interface, the generator will go through all the property declarations and generate a table.

```ts
/**
 * @docs `ExampleModule`
 *
 * This is a description of `ExampleModule`
 */
interface ExampleModule {
  /**
   * This is the description of foo.
   */
  foo: string;
  /**
   * This is the description of bar.
   */
  bar?: number;
}
```

---

#### `ExampleModule`

This is a description of `ExampleModule`

| Name | Description                     | Type                | Required |
| ---- | ------------------------------- | ------------------- | -------- |
| foo  | This is the description of foo. | <code>string</code> | yes      |
| bar  | This is the description of bar. | <code>number</code> | no       |

---

## Other code behavior

When the generator sees the `@docs` directive in a JSDoc comment before anything else that isn't an `interface`, it will simply take the declaration and wrap it in a code block with one difference—it will remove the generics from the types (e.g. `<T>`).

Why? Non-TS users are confused by generics. Simply removing the generics declaration (i.e. the stuff between the `<>`s) fixes the readability issue while also keeping the generics there.

For example, see the input code block vs the output code block.

Input:

```ts
export function myModule<Foo, Bar, Args extends any[], Result>(
  ...args: Args
): {
  foo: Foo;
  bar: (bar: Bar) => Result;
};
```

Output (more readable to JS users):

```ts
function myModule(
  ...args: Args
): {
  foo: Foo;
  bar: (bar: Bar) => Result;
};
```
